---
layout: post
title:  "Memos"
date:   2015-07-07
categories: Study-Notes
excerpt: study notes
comments: true
---

* content
{:toc}

Memos for concepts

## Network 

* The Difference Between IPv6 and IPv4 IP Addresses

An IP address is binary numbers but can be stored as text for human readers.  For example, a 32-bit numeric address (IPv4) is written in decimal as four numbers separated by periods. Each number can be zero to 255. For example, 1.160.10.240 could be an IP address.
IPv6 addresses are 128-bit IP address written in hexadecimal and separated by colons. An example IPv6 address could be written like this: 3ffe:1900:4545:3:200:f8ff:fe21:67cf

List of Well-Known Ports
Port numbers range from 0 to 65536, but only ports numbers 0 to 1024 are reserved for privileged services and designated as well-known ports. This list of well-known port numbers specifies the port used by the server process as its contact port.

~~~ shell
Port Number Description
1	TCP Port Service Multiplexer (TCPMUX)
5	Remote Job Entry (RJE)
7	ECHO
18	Message Send Protocol (MSP)
20	FTP -- Data
21	FTP -- Control
22	SSH Remote Login Protocol
23	Telnet
25	Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP)
29	MSG ICP
37	Time
42	Host Name Server (Nameserv)
43	WhoIs
49	Login Host Protocol (Login)
53	Domain Name System (DNS)
69	Trivial File Transfer Protocol (TFTP)
70	Gopher Services
79	Finger
80	HTTP
103	X.400 Standard
108	SNA Gateway Access Server
109	POP2
110	POP3
115	Simple File Transfer Protocol (SFTP)
118	SQL Services
119	Newsgroup (NNTP)
137	NetBIOS Name Service
139	NetBIOS Datagram Service
143	Interim Mail Access Protocol (IMAP)
150	NetBIOS Session Service
156	SQL Server
161	SNMP
179	Border Gateway Protocol (BGP)
190	Gateway Access Control Protocol (GACP)
194	Internet Relay Chat (IRC)
197	Directory Location Service (DLS)
389	Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP)
396	Novell Netware over IP
443	HTTPS
444	Simple Network Paging Protocol (SNPP)
445	Microsoft-DS
458	Apple QuickTime
546	DHCP Client
547	DHCP Server
563	SNEWS
569	MSN
1080	Socks
~~~

## Spark

* Mode: Cluster vs Client

There are two deploy modes that can be used to launch Spark applications on YARN. In yarn-cluster mode, the Spark driver runs inside an application master process which is managed by YARN on the cluster, and the client can go away after initiating the application. In yarn-client mode, the driver runs in the client process, and the application master is only used for requesting resources from YARN.

[link](http://blog.cloudera.com/blog/2014/05/apache-spark-resource-management-and-yarn-app-models/)

* [tune spark](http://blog.cloudera.com/blog/2015/03/how-to-tune-your-apache-spark-jobs-part-2/)

* RDD Transformations create a new dataset from an existing one
* The cache is fault-tolerant: if any partition of an RDD is lost, it will automatically be recomputed using the transformations that originally created it
* Broadcast variables let programmer keep a read-only variable cached on each machine rather than shipping a copy of it with tasks

~~~ scala
val broadcastVar = sc.broadcast(Array(1, 2, 3))
broadcastVar.value
~~~

* Accumulators are variables that can only be “added” to through an associative operation Used to implement counters and sums, efficiently in parallel

~~~ scala
val accum = sc.accumulator(0)
sc.parallelize(Array(1, 2, 3, 4)).foreach(x => accum += x)
accum.value
~~~

## Java Basics

* What are Checked and UnChecked Exception?

A checked exception is some subclass of Exception (or Exception itself), excluding class RuntimeException and its subclasses. Making an exception checked forces client programmers to deal with the possibility that the exception will be thrown.

Example: IOException thrown by java.io.FileInputStream's read() method·

Unchecked exceptions are RuntimeException and any of its subclasses. Class Error and its subclasses also are unchecked. With an unchecked exception, however, the compiler doesn't force client programmers either to catch the exception or declare it in a throws clause. In fact, client programmers may not even know that the exception could be thrown.

Example: StringIndexOutOfBoundsException thrown by String's charAt() method· Checked exceptions must be caught at compile time. Runtime exceptions do not need to be. Errors often cannot be.

* Objects are passed by value or by reference?

Java only supports pass by value. With objects, the object reference itself is passed by value and so both the original reference and parameter copy both refer to the same object.

* When you serialize an object, what happens to the object references included in the object?

The serialization mechanism generates an object graph for serialization. Thus it determines whether the included object references are serializable or not. This is a recursive process.

Thus when an object is serialized, all the included objects are also serialized alongwith the original obect.

* What are wrapper classes?

Java provides specialized classes corresponding to each of the primitive data types. These are called wrapper classes.

They are example: Integer, Character, Double etc.

* What is the difference between error and an exception?

An error is an irrecoverable condition occurring at runtime. Such as OutOfMemory error.

These JVM errors and you can not repair them at runtime. While exceptions are conditions that occur because of bad input etc. Example: FileNotFoundException will be thrown if the specified file does not exist. Or a NullPointerException will take place if you try using a null reference.

In most of the cases it is possible to recover from an exception (probably by giving user a feedback for entering proper values etc.).

* How are Observer and Observable used?

Objects that subclass the Observable class maintain a list of observers. When an Observable object is updated it invokes the update() method of each of its observers to notify the observers that it has changed state. The Observer interface is implemented by objects that observe Observable objects.

* What is the purpose of finalization?

The purpose of finalization is to give an unreachable object the opportunity to perform any cleanup processing before the object is garbage collected.

* Can an unreachable object become reachable again?

An unreachable object may become reachable again. This can happen when the object's finalize() method is invoked and the object performs an operation which causes it to become accessible to reachable objects.

* What is daemon thread and which method is used to create the daemon thread?

Daemon thread is a low priority thread which runs intermittently in the back ground doing the garbage collection operation for the java runtime system.setDaemon method is used to create a daemon thread.

* Difference between HashMap and HashTable?

The HashMap class is roughly equivalent to Hashtable, except that it is unsynchronized and permits nulls. (HashMap allows null values as key and value whereas Hashtable doesnt allow).

HashMap does not guarantee that the order of the map will remain constant over time. HashMap is unsynchronized and Hashtable is synchronized.

* Difference between Vector and ArrayList?

Vector is synchronized whereas arraylist is not.

* What is difference between Path and Classpath?

Path and Classpath are operating system level environment variales. Path is used define where the system can find the executables(.exe) files and classpath is used to specify the location .class files.

* When will you define a method as static?

When a method needs to be accessed even before the creation of the object of the class then we should declare the method as static.

* How many bits are used to represent Unicode, ASCII, UTF-16, and UTF-8 characters?

Unicode requires 16 bits and ASCII require 7 bits Although the ASCII character set uses only 7 bits, it is usually represented as 8 bits.

UTF-8 represents characters using 8, 16, and 18 bit patterns.

UTF-16 uses 16-bit and larger bit patterns.

* Is null a keyword?

The null value is not a keyword.

* Does a class inherit the constructors of its superclass?

A class does not inherit constructors from any of its superclasses.

* What is the diffrence between inner class and nested class?

When a class is defined within a scope of another class, then it becomes inner class. If the access modifier of the inner class is static, then it becomes nested class.

*  What restrictions are placed on method overriding?

Overridden methods must have the same name, argument list, and return type. The overriding method may not limit the access of the method it overrides. The overriding method may not throw any exceptions that may not be thrown by the overridden method.

* What are the practical benefits, if any, of importing a specific class rather than an entire package (e.g. import java.net.* versus import java.net.Socket)?

It makes no difference in the generated class files since only the classes that are actually used are referenced by the generated class file. There is another practical benefit to importing single classes, and this arises when two (or more) packages have classes with the same name. Take java.util.Timer and javax.swing.Timer, for example. If I import java.util.* and javax.swing.* and then try to use "Timer", I get an error while compiling (the class name is ambiguous between both packages). Let's say what you really wanted was the javax.swing.Timer class, and the only classes you plan on using in java.util are Collection and HashMap. In this case, some people will prefer to import java.util.Collection and import java.util.HashMap instead of importing java.util.*. This will now allow them to use Timer, Collection, HashMap, and other javax.swing classes without using fully qualified class names in.

* Cast only from larger to smaller. double to byte is ok

* >> : operator once moves the bits towards right. It doesn't move the sign bit.
* >>>: operator once moves the bits towards right, the sign bit also will gets moving.

* What is the difference between yielding and sleeping?

When a task invokes its yield() method, it returns to the ready state. When a task invokes its sleep() method, it returns to the waiting state.

* What happens if an exception is not caught?

An uncaught exception results in the uncaughtException() method of the thread's ThreadGroup being invoked, which eventually results in the termination of the program in which it is thrown.

* What are three ways in which a thread can enter the waiting state?

A thread can enter the waiting state by invoking its sleep() method, by blocking on I/O, by unsuccessfully attempting to acquire an object's lock, or by invoking an object's wait() method. It can also enter the waiting state by invoking its (deprecated) suspend() method.

* What is numeric promotion?

Numeric promotion is the conversion of a smaller numeric type to a larger numeric type, so that integer and floating-point operations may take place. In numerical promotion, byte, char, and short values are converted to int values. The int values are also converted to long values, if necessary. The long and float values are converted to double values, as required.

* What are synchronized methods and synchronized statements?

Synchronized methods are methods that are used to control access to an object. A thread only executes a synchronized method after it has acquired the lock for the method's object or class.

Synchronized statements are similar to synchronized methods. A synchronized statement can only be executed after a thread has acquired the lock for the object or class referenced in the synchronized statement.

### java Concurrency  

[Source](http://www.javacodegeeks.com/2014/11/multithreading-concurrency-interview-questions-answers.html)

* How many threads does a Java program have at least?

Each Java program is executed within the main thread; hence each Java application has at least one thread.

* What properties does each Java thread have?

Each Java thread has the following properties:
an identifier of type long that is unique within the JVM;
a name of type String;
a priority of type int;
a state of type java.lang.Thread.State;
a thread group the thread belongs to;

* Why should a thread not be stopped by calling its method stop()?

A thread should not be stopped by using the deprecated methods stop() of java.lang.Thread, as a call of this method causes the thread to unlock all monitors it has acquired. If any object protected by one of the released locks was in an inconsistent state, this state gets visible to all other threads. This can cause arbitrary behavior when other threads work this this inconsistent object.

* How can a thread be woken up that has been put to sleep before using Thread.sleep()?

The method interrupt() of java.lang.Thread interrupts a sleeping thread.

* What happens when an uncaught exception leaves the run() method?

It can happen that an unchecked exception escapes from the run() method. In this case the thread is stopped by the Java Virtual Machine. It is possible to catch this exception by registering an instance that implements the interface UncaughtExceptionHandler as an exception handler.
This is either done by invoking the static method Thread.setDefaultUncaughtExceptionHandler(Thread.UncaughtExceptionHandler), which tells the JVM to use the provided handler in case there was no specific handler registerd on the thread itself, or by invoking setUncaughtExceptionHandler(Thread.UncaughtExceptionHandler) on the thread instance itself.

* What intrinsic lock does a synchronized method acquire?
* 
A synchronized method acquires the intrinsic lock for that method’s object and releases it when the method returns. Even if the method throws an exception, the intrinsic lock is released. Hence a synchronized method is equal to the following code:

~~~ java
public void method() {
    synchronized(this) {
        ...
    }
}
~~~

* Which rules do you have to follow in order to implement an immutable class?

All fields should be final and private.
There should be not setter methods.
The class itself should be declared final in order to prevent subclasses to violate the principle of immutability.
If fields are not of a primitive type but a reference to another object:
There should not be a getter method that exposes the reference directly to the caller.
Don’t change the referenced objects (or at least changing these references is not visisble to clients of the object).

* What is a semaphore?

A semaphore is a data structure that maintains a set of permits that have to be acquired by competing threads. Semaphores can therefore be used to control how many threads access a critical section or resource simultaneously. Hence the constructor of java.util.concurrent.Semaphore takes as first parameter the number of permits the threads compete about. Each invocation of its acquire() methods tries to obtain one of the available permits. The method acquire() without any parameter blocks until the next permit gets available. Later on, when the thread has finished its work on the critical resource, it can release the permit by invoking the method release() on an instance of Semaphore.

## Spring

* Spring MCV basically consists of:

1. The Model, that encapsulates the application data
2. The View, which is responsible for rendering the model data and in general it generates HTML output that the client’s browser can interpret.
3. The Controller, which processes user requests and builds appropriate model and passes it to the view for rendering.

* What are Spring beans?

The Spring Beans are Java Objects that form the backbone of a Spring application. They are instantiated, assembled, and managed by the Spring IoC container. These beans are created with the configuration metadata that is supplied to the container, for example, in the form of XML <bean/> definitions.

Beans defined in spring framework are singleton beans. There is an attribute in bean tag named "singleton" if specified true then bean becomes singleton and if set to false then the bean becomes a prototype bean. By default it is set to true. So, all the beans in spring framework are by default singleton beans.

## spark vs mapreduce

SPARK, apt choice for the future big data applications that possibly would require lower latency queries, iterative computation and real time processing on data.

i) Faster

Execute batch processing jobs , about 10 to 100 times faster than the Hadoop MapReduce framework just by merely cutting down on the number of reads and writes to the disc. 

MapReduce does not leverage the memory of the Hadoop cluster to the maximum. In Spark the concept of RDDs (Resilient Distributed Datasets) lets you save data on memory and preserve it to the disc if and only if it is required and as well it does not have any kind of synchronization barriers that possibly could slow down the process. Thus the general execution engine of Spark is much faster than Hadoop MapReduce with the use of memory.

ii) Easy Management

With Hadoop Spark  it is possible to perform Streaming, Batch Processing and Machine Learning all in the same cluster. 

With Spark it is possible to control different kinds of workloads, so if there is an interaction between various workloads in the same process it is easier to manage and secure such workloads which come as a limitation with MapReduce.

iii) Spark Streaming –Real Time Method to Process Streams

In case of Hadoop MapReduce you just get to process a batch of stored data but with Hadoop Spark it is as well possible to modify the data in real time through Spark Streaming. 

spark streaming is based on a paper Discretized Streams, which proposes a new model for doing windowed computations on streams using micro batches. Hadoop doesn't support  this.

iv) Caching

Spark ensures lower latency computations by caching the partial results across its memory of distributed workers unlike MapReduce which is disk oriented completely. 

V) Recovery

RDD is the main abstraction of spark. It allows recovery of failed nodes by re-computation of the DAG while also supporting a more similar recovery style to Hadoop by way of checkpointing, to reduce the dependencies of an RDD. Storing a spark job in a DAG allows for lazy computation of RDD's and can also allow spark's optimization engine to schedule the flow in ways that make a big difference in performance.

vi) Spark API

Hadoop MapReduce has a very strict API that doesn't allow for as much versatility. Since spark abstracts away many of the low level details it allows for more productivity. Also things like broadcast variables and accumulators are much more versatile than DistributedCache and counters IMO.


Vii) Scheduler

As a product of in memory computation spark sort of acts as it's own flow scheduler. Whereas with standard MR you need an external job scheduler like Azkaban or Oozie to schedule complex flows.

Viii)  Iterative computations

Spark has the upper hand as long as we’re talking about iterative computations that need to pass over the same data many times. But when it comes to one-pass ETL-like jobs, for example, data transformation or data integration, then MapReduce is the deal—this is what it was designed for.

ix) Cost

The memory in the Spark cluster should be at least as large as the amount of data you need to process, because the data has to fit into the memory for optimal performance. So, if you need to process really Big Data, Hadoop will definitely be the cheaper option since hard disk space comes at a much lower rate than memory space.

On the other hand, considering Spark’s benchmarks, it should be more cost-effective since less hardware can perform the same tasks much faster, especially on the cloud where compute power is paid per use.

x) Failure Tolerance


Spark has retries per task and speculative execution—just like MapReduce. 

If a process crashes in the middle of execution, it could continue where it left off, whereas Spark will have to start processing from the beginning. 

xi) Security

Spark security is still in its infancy; Hadoop MapReduce has more security features and projects like kerborose , sentry etc 
