---
layout: post
title:  "Uber Architecture"
date:   2015-07-16
categories: Framework
excerpt: 
comments: true
---

### Notes

new dispatch system Disco (Dispatch Optimization), demand and supply. Uber chose to use Google's S2 Geometry Library, 
where the earth is divided and represented using cell with a 64-bit integer id. They've built ringpop to handle this
problem. Ringpop uses a consistent hash ring, also used by Amazon's Dynamo, 
memcached or Riak, to distribute state across nodes. 

Uber felt the need to create its own protocol mainly because it needed to support multiple
languages (javascript and python), tracing and encapsulation.
Uber is moving out of HTTP+JSON and moving towards Thrift over TChannel.

For instance, TChannel supports "backup requests with cross server- cancellation". 
This means that the same request might be sent to two instances of the same service, 
with a slight delay between the two. The first instance to reply handles the cancelling 
the request on the second instance, to cut redundant work.

 Given that the driver's phones post location updates to the server every four seconds, 
 the server periodically replies with an encrypted state digest. If a data center fails 
 the driver will contact a new data center to post a location update. The new data center 
 doesn't know anything about this particular driver so it asks for the state digest and picks up from there.
 
the dispatch system is mostly built with NodeJS, but Ranney mentioned Uber wants to switch to io.js,
a NodeJS fork. Ranney also briefly talked about other Uber's architecture components.
Maps and ETAs are written in several languages, such as C++ and Java, due to the need to integrate 
with different kinds of services. All their business logic is written in Python. Uber is building 
their own column-oriented distributed data store but they also use Postgres, Redis, MySQL and Riak

### [source](http://www.infoq.com/news/2015/03/uber-realtime-market-platform)

### My Ideas for UBER

* Business travel:

1. half a day short term entertainment: hotspot entertainments: famous bars, movies, interests, etc. From your hotel. And the airplane your flight time.
(drivers acts as tour-guide to do it, can make reservation. What is a qualified driver? Local/good recommendation/or other travel business)
2. Round trip planner, daily commute. Same driver. (time slot flexibility, backup driver). Can worry the users will get rid of app, but Uber will have better protection/regulation on that.
3. Multiple places with short stay.

* Work with taxi companies:

1. real-time data analytics results.
2. Customer feedback to improve the services.

* Extra business:

1. package/dinner delivery.
2. Special requirements: baby carseat services.
